---
layout: default
title: "Git Gud"
date: 2020-01-30
---

# Git


## Working directory
- area where all our files and directories an dchanges are living all the time
- git init

## Staging area
- files and directories that we explicitly add to the staging area
- git add

## Repository
- where all our snapshots are stored
- git commit -m "message - Present tense verb + file or change you added"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Extra commands
 - git log // show history of commits + messages
 - git add *.html // * is used as a wild card for anything with a (in this example) .html extension
 - git add -A  // adds all files and folder from the directory that you are in (including hidden)

## Removing files
- git reset HEAD <filename> // removes from staging area

## Ignoring files
- create .gitignore file && add file names to the .gitignore file to keep git from tracking it
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## Git branches 
- When you want to add a new feature or fix a bug—no matter how big or how small—you spawn a new branch to encapsulate your changes. 

## Listing all branches
- git branch // * by the branches denotes the current branch you are working in

## Adding branches
-  git branch <branch_name> OR git checkout -b <branch_name>  // adds and checks out a new branch simultaneously

## Changing branches
- git checkout <branch_name>

## Merging a branch 
//merging a branch, consolidates the commits from 1 branch into the other. Checkout the branch you want to merge another into: ie: git checkout master , In the example (git merge feature1) we were in the master branch and merged the feature1 branch to the master branch. This brought the new files and commits from the feature1 branch into the master branch
- git merge <branch_name> 

## Removing a branch
    // best to not delete branches, but here's how to do so
- git branch -d <branch_name>

## Checking out commits

Git allows us to checkout any of the commits from our log. This means we can go back and look at the code from our earlier commits without losing any of our current commits. This is especially useful when you're current codebase is broken, but you have an earlier commit with working code.

The steps are as follows:

1) Make sure you're inside of your project's directory, using the cd command.

2) Once inside of the directory, use git log to view your log history.

3) You can scroll down to earlier commits by hitting enter (return)

4) Once you locate the commit you want to checkout, copy the hash key from the commit.
    - The hash key is the alphanumeric string that comes after the word "commit" (see yellow text in image below
    - The hash from above is the string of characters that begins with 7484e645. You don't have to copy the entire sequence of characters, the first few will do.

5) Exit out of git log by pressing Q

6) Type git checkout 7484e645 (replace the hash with one from your selected commit) and hit enter

7) Now you can look around inside of this commit and copy any code that you need. If you'd like to start working from this commit, but don't want to overwrite any of the code from the branch that you're currently on (in this case it's master) then you can type git checkout -b <branch_name> to create a new branch to begin working from.

8) Once you're done working from this commit, you can return to the most recent commit on the branch of your choosing by typing git checkout <branch_name>, in this case I typed git checkout master and it returned me to my most recent commit on the master branch.

## Note  
- When you checkout an earlier commit, you are now in a "detached HEAD" state, this means that you are no longer on the commit that is being pointed to by the HEAD. The HEAD, in git, is a pointer to the most recent commit of whichever branch you are currently on.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Github
- git remote add origin (url) //adds a source to pull from
- git remote -v //check that origin added as remote
- git push -u origin master //local branch master is pushed to remote branch master


## vscode / github integration
- https://github.com/microsoft/vscode-pull-request-github 
- https://www.azuredevopslabs.com/labs/azuredevops/githubpullrequests/ 
- The documentation here suggests that you can just pop open the command pallete for vscode and type "sign in" and it should bring the applet up. However, this was not the case for me. I had to initialize a repo in github and then use <git remote add origin (url)> link that github gives you for the sign up to prompt on the indicator bar at the bottom of vscode. 

## Final Comments
Big shout-out to Ian Schoonover who created the tutorial to allow me to write this out and understand git better. You can find the course on Udemy here: https://www.udemy.com/course/intro-to-git/ 

{{ page.date | date: "%m/%d/%Y" }}
